# Command Deck Update - June 27, 2024

## Key Features

### Manual Pool Configuration
Customize your storage pools with granular control over drive participation. This even includes the ability to create 1-drive pools (without redundancy or expandability). This applies to both our setup wizard and the main storage page itself. Proper warnings are displayed based on the risk profile of the pool being configured.

Users that previously "disconnected" (this process is now referred to as "Unclaiming") their server from HexOS can easily reconnect through the setup wizard without being forced to recreate their storage pools from scratch (just click "skip" when on the storage configuration page of the wizard).

### New Activity Center
The Health card has been replaced with Activity. Activity tracks everything you do in HexOS: our custom orchestration, server events, alerts, updates, and dismissals. Dismissed activities are reviewable from the activity archive.

### Update to TrueNAS SCALE 24.10.2.2
Another benefit of the new activity center is the ability to update the OS running on your local server itself. You will find the ability to update the OS also in the new Activity Center on the Dashboard.

### User Settings & Preferences Improvements
Light or dark theme, preferred language, hidden dashboard cards - these all now sync and persist across browser sessions. The dashboard is yours to shape and customize as you see fit.

### UI and Stability Improvements
Improved card layout and polish across the UI, the password field now supports toggling visibility, username character limit raised to 30, and plenty of behind the scenes stability fixes.

### Customizable Location Preferences
You can now set exactly your performance versus capacity pools, app locations and other storage preferences that allow our one click installs to work. Works across all curated and custom apps.

## How to Update

Updating the Command Deck itself is an action performed by the HexOS development team. Users are not required to perform any action to receive the update. It will appear automatically upon login after it goes live.

For users still running the 24.10.0.0 build of TrueNAS SCALE, you will see an "Update Available" notification under the Activity Center once you login. Once you engage the update, **do NOT power off your system**. Wait for the update to download and restart your server automatically. Your system will automatically reconnect to the Command Deck when complete. The time this process can take will vary based on your Internet connection.

## Known Issues

- There is a TrueNAS SCALE bug that affects HexOS users when switching your network configuration from DHCP to Static; manually setting DNS before making this change will prevent the issue; we have a planned hotfix for this as well
- Skipping storage pool creation in the wizard allows users to create pools within TrueNAS and they will show up in HexOS; **WARNING:** we have not tested all pool layouts (or sub-pools either), experiment with great caution